# Principles

Section Objectives:

1. We take a principled approach.
1. A very short essay for 9-10 guiding principles or rules.
    1. Plays (in the playbook) should reference and support these princples.

---
LEGACY CONTENT WE MAY-OR-MAY-NOT-USE

#### First, principles.

Too often we start with tools. Fear of missing out (FOMO) probably has a lot to do with this. What if I miss the Kubernetes boat? What if I'm not keeping up with my peers? I am a dinosaur.

The derisive terms "Buzzword Bingo" and "Resume Driven Development" were coined to describe the phenomena and tendency in our line of work to grasp for the next silver bullet - the misguided idea that the solution to your problems comes from the latest, shiniest tool. The subtext is that tools come and go and won't save your lunch.

Overall I think starting with tools is the wrong place to, well, start. I've had much better luck starting with first principles. When principles drive our choice of practices, practices stick. When practices stick, we get really good at picking and mastering the right tools. Better to act from first principles. 

#### What's a principle?

> Principles are guidelines for human conduct that are proven to have enduring, permanent value. - Stephen Covey

When things get conceptual, I look for examples. Bret Victor gives us a nice example of principles in his talk, [Inventing on Principle](https://www.notion.so/d959a994-4c12-46a9-8cb6-ab6affef11cf). "Creators need an immediate connection to what they're creating," he asserts as his principle. He goes on to demonstrate a gaming IDE where programmatic changes are seen side-by-side with gameplay mechanics. It is *very* cool. His core message is about the role that principles play in the act of creation. His principle, for example, helps him anchor on and realize a fundamental value: instant feedback.

#### Dojo Principles

It's tempting to describe the dojo model in static terms, saying, "here are a bunch of workflow diagrams, figures, and text and here is the binder that contains it all now enjoy your certificate of achievement." However that outcome is precisely *not* my goal. 

There are 10 core principles that guide the inception and evolution of a successful dojo challenge or program. I use these principles to evolve models large and small, not the other way around. 

## 1. Failure is an important part of learning. 

Amy Edmundson coined the term psychological safety in her paper [Psychological Safety and Learning Behavior in Work Teams](https://www.notion.so/3748ed50-c6a2-4478-92c0-1dea2f94ab7b): 

> [Psychological Safety is the] shared belief held by members of a team that the team is safe for interpersonal risk taking

Team members must be OK with failure as an option. Failure is, after all, an important part of experimentation. Failure yields a lot of interesting learning opportunities! Beyond that, innovation work requires divergent points of view. People feeling comfortable sharing these points of view is an absolute essential in this context.

Tranformations are often coupled to enteprise-level failures. As such, there can be a lot of FUD in the ozone about why teams are there and what this means for their career prospects at the firm.

**In the dojo failure is an option. Learning and experimentation are non-optional.**

## 2. Learning over delivery. 

Dial back delivery to amplify learning. It may seem counterintuitive, but progress seems to be a side-effect of progression. That is, if we're working consciously on our skills, environments, product knowledge, etc. we can actually make greater impacts with this knowledge.

Velocity, capacity, and such are great for predictability but, if the team doesn't know what they're pursuing or how to do it , that predictability can be a short term illusion.

**In the dojo we move methodically and purposefully as a whole team, understanding why we're doing what we're doing through examples and reflection. When learning is immersive everything else follows.**

## 3. Adopt a product mindset.

Product thinking as a manageable entry to systems thinking. Products differ from projects in many ways. Three of the more important differentiators are (1) focus on a user, (2) team continuity, and, (3) how they are measured.

Be iterative!

## 4. Create a context rich environment.

Better context yields better content. A big part of the dojo is space and the visuals we plaster the walls with.

**In the dojo we place a high importance on the visibility of system status.** This means we can see work-in-progress, maps and our journeys through these maps, metrics dashboards, and the overall compass of the team.

## 5. Use the buddy system.

Beyond pairing: situational, purposeful collaboration across roles.

## 6. Plan continuously with the benefit of feedback.

Feedback-driven planning loops: build, measure, learn. The goal of planning is to set a course for the entire team. The goal of feedback is to learn whether or not that course is the right one.

**In the dojo, we both plan to create moments of feedback and make smarter decisions about our ideas with the benefit of feedback.** We want our planning to be effective so we are extreme and serious in shortening feedback loops. Planning chicken, meet feedback egg. We do this to design and develop the right thing for our users and customers.

## 7. Learn while doing.

Working through real problems, not simulations or contrived examples, makes for a better learning experience. It's not that there's anything wrong with using LEGO® Elements to simulate concepts for understanding, it's just that's not how we roll.

**In the dojo we work on your work, slowly, consciously, and methodically at first until we gain comfort with the skills we are learning permitting speed.** We will occasionally examine models from our industry and others, but immediately apply that context to our own. Realism is the central concept in the dojo learning style.

## 8. Eliminate internal handoffs in the team.

T-shaped people build T-shaped teams. A T-shaped person has a number of core capabilities and skills needed to pull off valuable product impacts. 

**In the dojo we seek to build capable teams with cross functional skills.**


## 9. No invisible work.

Investment is work, too.

**In the dojo balanced teams pursue outcomes that lead to sustainable systems, happy customers, teammate progression, and simple, effective technology.** Delivery of business value is one such outcome. Other outcomes include paying back technical debt and understanding the customer better. Teams are encouraged to find the right balance of goals to pursue appropriate for product and themselves.

## 10. Focus, engagement, and commitment predetermine success.

When both the team and coach commit to their dojo challenge, we greatly increase our chances of success. You get out of a challenge what you put into it. The common enemies standing between a lot of teams and progression are apathy and inertia. "We'll never have time to do that," becomes an excuse for living with cumbersome workflow and code people are afraid to change or challenge. 

I like the old Canon motto, "continuous improvement is the result of continuous involvement."

**In the dojo we seek to exchange apathy for grit and inertia for energy.** The dojo model promotes conditions for learning and progression, but it's the commitment by the team, the support of their leaders and organization, and the engagement and skill of your coaches is what will guarantee great outcomes.