# People

Before you start you need alignment from three groups: active support and involvement leadership; commitment and engagement from teams engaging in a challenge; and capable coaches who are masters in their respective domains.


## Team Members {#members}

T-shaped teams. Small teams.

## Leaders {#leaders}

The dojo program leaders working with the team leaders.

## Coaches {#coaches}

- Player/Coaches.
- Disposition: action-biased; "show, don't tell."; teachers that do.

### External and Internal

> One of the things we hit upon was the quality of a host. That is, the role of the architect, or the designer, is that of a very good, thoughtful host, all of whose energy goes into trying to anticipate the needs of his guests—those who enter the building and use the objects in it. We decided that this was an essential ingredient in the design of a building or a useful object. - Charles Eames

Guest / host relationship from Eames - http://www.eamesoffice.com/the-work/the-guest-host-relationship/

Coming in as a coach from the outside can be a challenge. You don't know the domains. You don't know the business. You don't know the players.

Internal coaches have their own particular set of challenges. Their influence can be diminished because a team sees them everyday. This is unfortunate, but I've experienced for myself. A coaching coming in from the outside gets a few extra points. Maybe they're perceived as having industrial knowledge not readily accessible within the firm. Maybe it's that they're attached to a leader (air cover). I don't know, but it's definiately a thing.

## Supporting Community

- Shared capabilities.
- Communities of interest.
- Systemic stakeholders.