# Space, Time, Material

In this section we'll talk about the importance of dedicated space and the duration of a dojo challenge, the length of the challenge, and the equipment you'll need to run a dojo locally and remotely.

## Space

A big part of the dojo experience and why it works is the space. Having a dedicated team space can feel envigorating and energizing, especially coming from a cube farm or open office environment. 

This space can also provide a healthy separation from normal routine. The isolation becomes a forcing function for Do It Yourself.

A dedicated space takes the team out of its normal environment and puts them in a new, more distraction free, environment that promotes focus.

The idea of a team room isn’t a new one. It’s been in the agile playbook for a long time. Before all this even was the Toyota Way idea of a [Obeya](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Obeya).

- A dedicated room is preferred. You do not want the challenge team’s space to be something walked through or routine. It's desirable to get people outside of their normal environment.
- Lots of wall space - we’re going to put up all kinds of displays and information radiators. We need space for things like frames, maps, etc.
- Readily available power outlets with tidy cable management.
- A window is always nice (reference the Toyota “window people” thing?)

## Time

Challenge length. Team's dedicating their time.

## Material

### Colocated

- 60”+ 4k Display w/ HDMI input. SMART displays are overkill; we generally want to display our workstation screens and switch the display quickly as we share.
- Dedicated environments or cloud accounts to be able to create environments (with secrets vault / credentials). The lead time associated with ticket storms asking for resources usually menas a slow start.
- 27” monitors (res?) for pairing. HDMI input because it's 2019.
- Bin of adapters for everything (VGA, Display Port, USB-C) to HDMI.
- A long enough HDMI cable to reach anywhere in the space.
- 4x 4’x8’ Dry Erase Board
- Tables, Floor-plan TBD

There is an [Amazon Wish List](https://www.amazon.com/gp/registry/wishlist/3GAGNGF3OD33I/ref=cm_wl_huc_title) with all office supplies needed for a challenge team. You'll have to adjust the quantity of each item in your cart depending on number of challenges and challenge length. These items should be placed in a single bin easily accessible by the team. Contents:

- 3"x3" post-it notes - 1000 Yellow, 500 Blue, 500 Orange.
- [2x Classic Sharpies / Team Member](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B00006IFHD/?coliid=I3VQY8NXTB1853&colid=3GAGNGF3OD33I&psc=0&ref_=lv_ov_lig_dp_it)
- [2x Post-it Super Sticky Easel Pad, 25 x 30 Inches, Large White Grid](https://www.amazon.com/Post-Sticky-560SS-Premium-Sticking/dp/B003H0D8YU/ref=asc_df_B003H0D8YU/?tag=hyprod-20&linkCode=df0&hvadid=167140695348&hvpos=1o1&hvnetw=g&hvrand=7434364199083874146&hvpone=&hvptwo=&hvqmt=&hvdev=c&hvdvcmdl=&hvlocint=&hvlocphy=9010935&hvtargid=pla-310992995250&psc=1)
- Flipchart Markers - 4x Black, 2x Green, 2x Red, 2x Blue
- Dry Erase Markers - 4x Black, 2x Green, 2x Red, 2x Blue
- Dry Erase Board Erasers - 4x
- Dry Erase Board Cleaner

Be considerate of your remote team members! If you have remote team members, you'll want an instance of your collaboration/meeting app up at all times. Consider using someone's Persnal Room ID for ease of setup.

If acquiring these resources is challenging in your environment, we should frontload sourcing.

### Remote

- Software stack: Slack, GitHub, Mira/Mural, Zoom/WebEx, Confluence/Notion
- Modern, fast, configured workstations or cloud environments.
- A quiet personal working environment / office.
- Dedicated environments or cloud accounts to be able to create environments (with secrets vault / credentials)

If acquiring these licenses and accounts is challenging in your organization, we should frontload sourcing.
